---
title: Huma Bird
layout: post
description: Huma bird is a mythological bird that flies over seven layers of the sky and never alights on the ground. Its name is composed of the Arabic words "Hu = Spirit" and "Ma = Water".
date: '2020-10-16 15:30:00'
language: en
publish: 'yes'
subtitle: Why is getting pooped on by a bird Good Luck?
---

Huma bird is a mythological bird that flies over seven layers of the sky and never alights on the ground. Its name is composed of the Arabic words "Hu = Spirit" and "Ma = Water". It has an important place in Persian mythology as well as in Turkic mythology.  It is the third most important motif after the tree of life and water of life. It flies so high that it is believed to have reached to heaven. That's why one of its names in Turkish culture is the "bird of paradise". Huma is considered to be compassionate, and a “bird of fortune” since its shadow (or touch) is said to be auspicious. (This is why you may not be able to win the lottery if it is a pigeon that popped on your head rather than the Huma bird.) It is also called “bird of state” because it was believed that when the shadow of the Huma bird falls on a person's head, it was considered as a sign that she/he will be crowned and become the new king.

According to an old folk belief, when a king died, the people would gather in a square and wait for the Huma bird. The person whom Huma alighted on his/her head or its shadow fell upon was elected as the new king.

Huma bird cannot be captured while it was still alive, it laid eggs in the air and raised its baby in the air, it had no feet, it did not hurt any bird, it protected his offspring under its wings in case of any danger, and whoever killed it deliberately would die within forty days.


+ *[Hüma Kuşu](https://www.sanatkarnavali.com/huma-kusu/)*, Sanat Karnavalı
+ *[Hüma](https://islamansiklopedisi.org.tr/huma)*, İslam Ansiklopedisi
+ *[Huma Bird](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huma_bird)*, Wikipedia
{: .sources}
