---
layout: post

title: The First Mutant Ninja Turtle
subtitle: Xuan Wu
description: Xuan Wu was told that in order to fully achieved divinity and become a god, he must purge himself from all his past sins and little niggly bad habits and naughty thoughts by washing his stomach and intestines in the river.
date: '2020-11-24 13:40:00'

language: 'en'
language_reference: 'xuan-wu'

publish: 'yes'
---

Xuan Wu (Eng: Black Warrior), one of the four important symbols of Chinese Constellation, is also a deity in Taoism.
Xuan Wu was told that in order to fully achieved divinity and become a god, he must purge himself from all his past sins and little niggly bad habits and naughty thoughts by washing his stomach and intestines in the river. I have no idea how but he washed them and painted the entire river black. (Meanwhile, listening to Rolling Stones, Paint it Black is highly recommended.)

Xuan Wu purged himself 100% of his sins as he wished. However, the black waters in the river became a tortoise and snake and started to terrorize the people in the country like a little demon mafia gang, causing people to fear, disturb, and terrorize as a hobby. When Xuan Wu found out this and knocked sense into them. They also regretted what they had done, kissed his hand as a sign of subservience (Now you may listen to the Godfather theme song)

In another version of the story, all the evilness in Xuan Wu oozed out into a black sloppy mess on the floor which turned into a black tortoise. This Mysterious Black Warrior Tortoise flew into the sky and became the guardian of the North. The tortoise depicted with a serpent entangled over its body represents the winter season. Since it lives in the ocean, its element is water. The Black Warrior is identified with wisdom, happiness, and longevity.

+ *[Xuan Wu](https://www.godchecker.com/chinese-mythology/XUAN-WU/)*, Godchecker.com
+ *[Çin Mitolojisinde Dört Önemli Sembol](https://fwmail.net/genel-kultur/cin-mitolojisinde-dort-onemli-sembol)*, Fwmail.com
+ *[Black Tortoise](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Tortoise)*, Wikipedia
{: .sources}
