---
layout: post

title: Qilin
subtitle: The Chinese Unicorn & More Inc.
description: The Qilin is the great-great-great cousin of unicorns living in China. It symbolizes good luck, prosperity, happiness, fertility, peace, and longevity. In China, babies are brought by qilins, not by storks.
date: '2020-11-30 13:40:00'

language: 'en'
language_reference: 'qilin'

publish: 'yes'
---

The Qilin is the great-great-great cousin of unicorns living in China.
It symbolizes good luck, prosperity, happiness, fertility, peace, and longevity. In China, babies are brought by qilins, not by storks.

It has the head of a dragon, the body of a horse, and fish scales covering its skin.  As he is depicted as a unicorn with a single horn in the middle of its forehead. However, it is frequently depicted with two horns, and sometimes they appear like the antlers of a deer instead.

The Qilin is believed to date back to 2697 BC, appearing in the garden of the legendary Huangdi, the Yellow Emperor of China.

They live an average of 2000 years, which is twice their Unicorn cousins.
When it walks it steps so lightly that it doesn't even bend down the grass for fear of damaging innocent plants or insect life. . It can also walk across the water's surface. It has no wings, but there are flames in the upper part of its body that allow it to fly.

Like its cousin, the unicorn is herbivorous but not as aggressive or dangerous as the unicorns. (Unicorns can injure hunters with their horns.) Although the Qilin is among * the most peaceful and gentle creatures, it is capable of producing fire for protection.

If the qilin stands in front of polluted/poisoned water, it immediately becomes crystal clear and clean.

It has the power to distinguish innocent and goodhearted ones like the Unicorn from others.

Qilins are associated with the birth of great leaders, kings, and significant people. It is said that Confucian's mother was visited by a Qilin before Confucian was born.


+ *[What is Qilin?](https://www.thoughtco.com/what-is-a-qilin-195005)*, ThoughtCo.com
+ *[Chinese Unicorn: The Qilin](https://unicornyard.com/chinese-unicorn-the-qilin/)*, Unicornyard.com
+ *[The Legendary Qilin](https://www.theworldofchinese.com/2013/06/the-legendary-qilin/)*, The World of Chinese
{: .sources}
