---
layout: post

title: Would you like to share the same body with your BFF?
subtitle: Tulpa
description: Tulpa is a kind of "fantasy/thought entity" created as a result of meditative work done with intense thinking. According to Tibetan Mysticism, thought is a form of energy that carries the reflection of the soul. With the right techniques, a living form can be created with the power of thought..
date: '2021-04-14 13:40:00'
language: 'en'
language_reference: 'tulpa'

publish: 'yes'
---

Tulpa (Tibetan: Trulpa) is a kind of "fantasy/thought entity" created as a result of meditative work done with intense thinking. According to Tibetan Mysticism, thought is a form of energy that carries the reflection of the soul. With the right techniques, a living form can be created with the power of thought.

Tulpa that you have created can be in human form, as well as a cartoon character, an animal, or any form you can imagine. The limit of your Tulpa is entirely your imagination and mind power. Regular and everyday meditative exercises are important until your Tulpa gains its own and independent identity.

After a while, Tulpa will become your imaginary friend who has her/his own feelings and thoughts and will never leave you as long as you wish him/her to stay. You can also talk to your Tulpa without any form and let them decide if and what form they want. Practitioners recommend imposition more than visualization of Tulpa.

Although Tulpa became popular with My Little Pony’s adult fans with their Pony Tulpa creations, there are currently communities and websites for the tulpamancers or those who want to be one. Although it is controversial some practitioners have sexual and romantic interactions with their Tulpas and live like a couple.

Tulpa was subjected to TV series such as Supernatural and X-files, and many other films. Tulpamancers also mention that Tulpa can not give harm to you as a tulpa can do anything the host can do, and nothing more.


+ *[Tulpa](https://www.tulpa.info/)*, Tulpa.info
+ *[Tulpa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tulpa)*, Wikipedia
{: .sources}
