---
layout: post
title: The most misunderstood Grandma
subtitle: Babayaga
description: Babayaga as we know in Slavic mhythology (or in John Wick) is an ugly old witch who lives in a hut with chicken legs in the depths of the forest and threatens to eat travelers and children. But Babayaga was not always a villain.
date: '2021-05-01 13:40:00'
language: 'en'
language_reference: 'babayaga'
publish: 'yes'
---
Babayaga as we know in Slavic mhythology (or in John Wick) is an ugly old witch who lives in a hut with chicken legs in the depths of the forest and threatens to eat travelers and children. But Babayaga was not always a villain.
.In fact, in ancient Russian fairy tales Babayaga is a healer, protector of clans, folks and travelers. According to one of the theories, she was the beautiful, kind and wise Slavic goddess Yaginya who showed people the right path. Some legends say she was the wife of Veles, the God of Magic, Wisdom, and the Three Worlds.

According to another ancient belief, Babayaga is the snake-tailed goddess of death. She guarded the entrance to the realm of the dead and accompanied the souls there.  In this belief, She resembles the ancient Greek half-woman and half-snake Echidna. Echidna gave birth to the Scythians who are considered to be the oldest ancestors of the Slavs.

So what happened, Babayaga has turned into an ugly and scary witch. How was she so misunderstood?

Back then a weird treatment method used for babies with rickets which is wrapping the baby in a sheet of dough and putting it into a warm stove several times until the dough hardens, and then throwing it out (the dough not the baby) supposedly along with the disease was interpreted as Babayaga's making a baby-toast and eating them.

Moreover someone who lives in the depths of the forest and prepare herbal remedies were most often feared but at the same time revered.

But of course, the biggest factor was the Christianization of Russia. The gods-goddesses in the previous pagan belief were transformed into evil and terrible creatures. Babayaga has not avoided this fate either.

Nowadays, although Babayaga returns to her original image – a kind woman who helps and shows the right way to the ones in need, she is still famous for being a wicked witch. In countless movies, animations and comics, Babayaga is still an old, terrifying and powerful witch.


+ *[Rus Cadısı Baba Yaga](https://ozhanozturk.com/2018/03/11/baba-yaga/)*, orhanozturk.com
+ *[Baba Yaga in Russian fairy tales](https://meetrussia.online/baba-yaga-in-russian-fairy-tales/)*, Meet Russia Online
{: .sources}
