---
layout: post

title: Your destiny is "really" on their hands
subtitle: Moirai
description: The Moiras are three sisters who are the incarnation of destiny in Greek myths. They are above all other known Greek gods. The first sister's name is Clotho, meaning "spinner". The second sister's name is Lachesis, which means "allotter". The last sister's name is Atropos, meaning "the unturnable".
date: '2021-07-5 13:40:00'
language: 'en'
language_reference: 'moirai'
publish: 'yes'
---

The Moiras are three sisters who are the incarnation of destiny in Greek myths. They are above all other known Greek gods. The first sister's name is Clotho, meaning "spinner". The second sister's name is Lachesis, which means "allotter". The last sister's name is Atropos, meaning "the unturnable".

They control the thread of life of all mortal or divine beings. Clotho spins the thread of life from her distaff onto her spindle, and the baby comes to life. His sister Lachesis measures the thread of life with her rod and decides how long her life will be. The other sister, Atropos, does the "unturnable": when the time comes, she cuts the thread and you die.

They are first generation Greek gods, created directly from chaos. They are the daughters of Nyx, Goddess of Night, and the sisters of Keres, God of evil fate, Thanatos, God of death, and Nemesis, Goddess of punishment.
They are mostly depicted dressed in white clothes. The three witches or the weird sisters figure in Shakespeare's play Macbeth is also inspired by this myth. The three sisters appear in many places such as Harry Potter, Doctor Who, The Witcher 3 and Dracula.

In Celtic Mythology, there is a similar, but even more bizarre, myth similar to these three weird sisters called the "Midnight Washerwomen". Three old women go to the water's edge at midnight to wash the shroud of the one who is about to die.

The washerwomen are small, dressed in green and have webbed feet. In the Wales version when these old women see you, they will ask you to help them wring out the sheets. If you twist the sheets in the same direction with them, you will get pulled into the wet sheets and killed instantly.

If, however, you twist in the opposite direction, the washerwomen are required to grant the person three wishes. So if you encounter these old ladies, your chance of survival is 1 in 3. In different versions in some countries, they have the ability to ask unstoppable questions like  "When are you getting married?" “When is the second kid?” or “How much money do you make?” to bore you worse than death.
