---
layout: post

title: Imagine a baby creepier than Chucky
subtitle: Toyol
description: Toyol is an undead infant in Southeast Asian folklore. Having a childhood with the deep fear of Chucky movies, it might be the the most chilling beast I've ever written here. Toyol can be summoned by a Shaman with black magic. Its master uses it to steal the things or to do mischief.
date: '2021-04-09 13:40:00'

language: 'en'
language_reference: 'toyol'

publish: 'yes'
---

Toyol is an undead infant in Southeast Asian folklore. Having a childhood with the deep fear of Chucky movies, it might be the the most chilling beast I've ever written here. Toyol can be summoned by a Shaman with black magic. Its master uses it to steal the things or to do mischief.

It looks like a naked baby with gray or goblin-like green skin.Like every infant (!), Toyol should be kept happy with new clothes and toys. As long as Tolol is happy, it brings wealth to his master and in exchange must be breastfed by a female member of the the family: however Toyol sucks blood from the breast instead of milk.

Toyol is kept in a sealed jar to be summoned when needed. Toyol gets stronger if the jar is put under the moonlight to absorb its energy. His master must drip his own blood into the jar to feed it on the 14th of every month. (Period, is that you?)

Thus, over the years, the bond between Toyol and his master becomes so strong that there will be no need for spoken words and they begin to communicate without even speaking. Toyol sometimes reads his master's thoughts. If his master is trying to get rid of him, he makes sure that the master dies together with it.  

Toyol can pass through walls or even human bodies. It can sometimes be used for a medical advice. If they get hungry at night, they take possession of their master’s body and make them eat Toyol's favorite food, raw meat, without even knowing it.  

If one of the newlyweds has Toyol, Toyol visits the couple before dawn on the wedding night. Its sucks blood from the toe of the bride until the bride wakes up. This ritual makes Toyol much stronger.

To find out if the house has a toyol, you can line up matchbox toy cars in a line. You will find them moving on their own.

There are more “dark” sides of Toyol that I did not write here. I highly recommend to dig it more if you are interested. Moreover you can find many horror or creppy/weird Toyol movies.


+ *[Toyol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toyol)*, Wikipedia
{: .sources}
