---
layout: post

title: A nine-tailed beauty
subtitle: Kumiho
description: umiho is the nine-tailed fox that is mentioned in Korean Legends. She seduces men by transforming into a beautiful woman. It is said that she wanders the cemeteries at night and eats human hearts.
date: '2021-05-04 13:40:00'
language: 'en'
language_reference: 'kumiho'

publish: 'yes'
---

Kumiho is the nine-tailed fox that is mentioned in Korean Legends. She seduces men by transforming into a beautiful woman. It is said that she wanders the cemeteries at night and eats human hearts. In order to stay in human form permanently, she needs to eat 100 human hearts. However, she still must go out to hunt and eat a human heart every 1000 nights after she becomes human.

Although it is known as "Huli Jing'' in China and "Kitsune" in Japan, there are points where these three characters differ from each other. For example, Huli Jing dressed as both men and women, while Kumiho appears only in the guise of a woman. Kitsune and Kumiho's feathers are soft as fox feathers, while Huli Jing has a thick coat and is sharp as if each yarn is made of metal.

The most important feature that distinguishes Kumiho from the other two species is the fox marble / bead called "yeowoo guseul". The kumiho can absorb humans' energy with it. The Kumiho sends the yeowoo guseul into people's mouths and then retakes it with their tongues. If that person swallows the yeowoo guseul, he gets the wisdom and preternatural knowledge .

While in China and Japan this nine-tailed fox can be both benevolent and malevolent, Kumiho is only described as evil. However, there are sources that argue that Kumiho is not always malevolent in Korean culture, and that it has become malicious, especially after the influence of Japanese culture.

Watch list for those who are interested in this beautiful fox-lady:
* My Girlfriend Is a Gumiho
* The Tale of the Nine Tailed
* Gumiho: Tale of the Fox’s Child
* Gu Family Book
* Love, Death & Robots - Goodhunting

+ *[Monster of the Week](https://thesupernaturalfoxsisters.com/2015/06/03/monster-of-the-week-kumiho/)*, thesupernaturalfoxsisters.com
+ *[Physical Differences Between Kumiho, Kitsune and Huli Jing](https://shukuchiisms.tumblr.com/post/143483882032/physical-differences-and-biological-between)*, shukuchiisms.tumblr.com
+ *[Kumiho](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kumiho)*, Wikipedia
{: .sources}
